CSC480 Internships in Computer Science or Information Technology 2016
Instructor Dr. Kevin McMahon
Tel: 524 7157
kmcmahon@carrollu.edu
Prerequisite Prerequisites: Junior or senior standing and consent of instructor required prior to registration.
Office Hours By appointment
Course Description:
The course provides professional work experience in computer science or information technology under the
supervision of faculty and industry personnel. Written report is required at the end of internship. S/U graded. (Fa, Sp,
Su) Prerequisites: Junior or senior standing and consent of instructor required prior to registration. The course may
be repeated for a maximum of 12 credits, but each repetition requires a substantially different work experience. 40
hours of work is needed for each credit.
Overall Computer Science Undergraduate Program Goals:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Provide a coherent and broad-based coverage of the discipline of computing and technology.
Provide an environment in which students are exposed to the ethical and societal issues
of the computing field.
Provide an environment where students are exposed to and understand the importance of the
major developments and trends that shape technology
Expose students to the body of theory that underlies the discipline.
Develop the skills necessary for the student to become a successful technology professional.
Provide a framework for the learning and application of current technologies in the “real
world”.
Course Objectives (see corresponding number below):
1. To prepare students to give a positive professional impression in interviews for CS/IT positions.
2. To prepare both an effective, concise and targeted resume and cover letter.
3. Develop realistic personal goals for your internship, and, with help from your supervisor, develop a list of
goals based on your duties at the organization.
4. To work for an organization that helps reinforce concepts discussed in class, and helps develop important
work-place skills in an IT setting.
5. Evaluate how effective the experience has been in meeting personal goals.
Learning Outcomes:
At the completion of the course students should,
1. Be prepared to interview for entry level positions in the CS/IT industry.
2. Have prepared a cover letter and resume for the next stage in career development.
3. By the second week of the experience have established both Organization Goals (what the company will get
from your work) and Personal Goals (what do you wish to get out of the internship).
4. Have had a rewarding, enriching job experience.
5. Complete a self-evaluation as to how/if they met personal goals.
1CSC480 Internships in Computer Science or Information Technology 2016
Assessment
This course is graded as satisfactory/unsatisfactory. The following will be used as assessment tools.





Reflection paper (2 page) (5%) You will need to submit a paper outlining your experience and what you
learned in terms of your career choice and your preparation for continuation in this field. Due during the last
week of classes.
Resume/Cover Letters (5%) Submit at mid-semester.
Goals Statement (5%) Submit by weeks 2-3
Self-Evaluation (5%) A one page paper outlining how you met your personal goals.
Supervisor Evaluation (80%) I will forward a short evaluation form to your supervisor towards the end of
the semester. This is one of the most important components of your evaluation. You must complete the
residency time you committed to at the beginning of the semester. Please forward supervisor contact info to
me by the completion of your first week.
Assessment Matrix
Tool
Reflection Paper
Resume/Cover
Letters
Goals Statement
Self-Eval
Supervisor Eval
1
Professional
Preparation
√
√
√
Learning Outcomes
2
3
4
Job-seeking
Goals
Enrichment
Preparation
√
√
√
√
√
√
√
5
Self-Evaluation
√
√
Special Needs Students with documented disabilities who may need accommodations, or any student considering
obtaining documentation should make an appointment with Martha Bledsoe, our disabilities coordinator, no later
than the first week of class. She can be reached by calling 524-7335 or contacting her via e-mail at
mbledsoe@carrollu.edu.
Amendments to the Syllabus The instructor and the university reserve the right to modify, amend, or change the
syllabus (course requirements, schedule, grading, etc.) as the curriculum and/or program require(s).
2